(upbeat music)
Hello everyone, Wes here,
I wanted to chat about using flexbox and forms together.
I was on the Airbnb website the other day
and they got this really little, simple, bar
that you can use.
So it's got a place where you can
search where you want, how you can check in, check out,
select the number of guests, and hit your search button.
So, I thought that would be kind of neat to recreate,
we could have done this with floats and widths
and stuff like that however it's nice to be able to
throw your forms with a whole bunch of inputs
and have them just kind of perfectly fit together
without having to worry about how wide are things,
and things like that.
So, I've got this sort of demo up and running,
it might not work perfectly on all the other browsers
but the parts that might not work are just
the video and the input type of date,
that's really not to matter, we're more worried
about getting these actual alignment things up and running.
I grabbed this video from Coverr,
if you've never checked out Coverr, it's coverr.co
awesome little website where they give you,
just free autoplaying, you videos.
So, I've got this as ANSWER,
it's what we're going to be building,
but I'm going to change it to,
just where we're starting off.
So, here we go, this is kind of where we start off,
we've got our inputs, they're not all the same sizes,
they are kind of a little bit weird and we've got all these,
this is called like a ghost space because inputs are
inline by default they'll just put some space in between,
which can be a bit of a pain when you're trying to
align them all.
HTML, what does that look like?
We've got a div with a class of cover,
and that is set to just kind of span the entire browser,
it's a 100vh and a 100vw each way.
Then I got a form with the class of flex-form
and inside of that I've got my inputs, my labels,
my dropdowns, sort of everything that I would need.
Let's get up and running with that,
jump into style.css and we are going to go ahead
and start with our flexbox.
The first thing I want to do,
is to actually get this form here center, so I want it both
vertically center and horizontally center,
so we'll select .cover which is again
that's the whole thing,
and we'll set it to flex,
so flex, give that a save, and it doesn't do too much,
just because we really only have,
one item inside of it, but we can use flexbox
to align it both horizontally as well as vertically.
So first let's do the horizontal and if we want
to horizontally center something,
that is on our main access, which is left to right,
and for that we can use justify-content:center.
Make sure you spell it right, give it a save and bam,
there we go, our form is now centered left to right,
and then we want it to also vertically be centered in
the middle of this cover div,
so for that we'll use align-items:center.
There we go, it's perfectly centered, bam,
right inside in the middle of the browser,
and that's great, so we'll move on from cover
on to the actual form itself.
So, this is a flex item right now, but we're again we're
gonna do the same thing what we did in previous videos,
is also make it a flex container, so go ahead and select it,
and we will say, display:flex
and what that does for us
is it makes it flexible, and the cool thing about that,
right away, by saying display:flex,
what happens?
Well it starts to look a lot better,
because it takes everything, now that flex form
is a flex container, the input, the label, the input,
the label, the input, the select, and the input,
those are all of our flex items, and by default,
it's going to stretch it across, it's going to evenly
make all of these things, the exact same size for us,
which is fantastic to do.
What else do we need to do on there?
We'll put a quick border on it,
so border:20px solid rgba(0,0,0,0).
Put a border-radius on it, something like 5px,
and alright, that's looking good to me.
So that's pretty much it so far, but we just got
the issue of this one input right here,
not being big enough, that's sort of just the default size
that we have, and before you reach for your width in CSS,
let's actually go ahead and select it
and use our flex-basis.
So how do we select that one?
It looks like it's an intput with the type of search,
so we can go down here and say input[type="search"]
and we'll say, flex-basis set to 500px, let's see.
So ideally in an ideal world
we'd have that input as a 500px.
So refresh, and we're off to the races.
So that, that seemed really easy,
this is a pretty short video,
really all we did is one, two, three, four, five,
different flexbox, or six different flexbox properties,
and that's kind of the beauty of flexbox is that when
you actually know what you're doing with all these different
properties, you can quickly slap something together
which previously might take a lot of math
and a lot of manual alignment.
Alright, I will see you in the next video.
(upbeat music)